So, let's start actually building a level now we know we can
do basic control over this. But this looks a bit rubbish, just having a door standing
here, so let's start fleshing out a level. So, we're going to start by just getting
the structure of the level, and then, in a future video, we're going to talk about materials, beautiful
materials down on these floor panels. Now, there are two basic ways of laying out a level.
One is with something called Static Meshes, which are pretty much what they sound like. These
doors and chairs are all Static Meshes. They are meshes in that they are just a series
of what we call vertices. You can see that, by the way, by click on say the
door, right-clicking, and you can say Edit SM_Door. And if you bring it up,
this new Editor window that will come up, you will have a whole new window come up over the top.
If you click Wireframe, you can see all of the triangles that comprise
this actual model, and you can even look at all the vertices, which are the points where
all the triangles meet. Alright, so that's what we mean by a
mesh, and static just means it's non-skeletal. There is another way of
building levels, by the way. In the Modes Panel, so you go Window and Modes, there's something called
BSP, Binary Space Partitioning, which is a technical name for how
the geometry is actually stored, so the computer can
work out what is in the way of what, etc. Now, the thing about BSP is,
you can actually flesh out levels with BSP. We're not going to yet, in this
instance. It has some advantages, which is for example in
Unreal here we can actually do vertex or face editing. I can grab
a face of something in BSP and move it, and I can even slew it along like this.
So, it can be more flexible for very simple geometry. The disadvantage is
that it's not as performant, it does not run as fast as using
custom Static Meshes made by an artist. BSP is an a bit of an acronym,
it's an old way of doing things. Alright, so we will look at BSP
probably later in the course, but for now, I'm going to get rid of this Box Brush thing
here. And if you see it's of type Brush, that's the indication that this is a piece of BSP.
We're not going to do it that way! What we're going to do is go to the Content Browser,
and there's two tabs of the Starter Content or folders
in the Starter Content I want you to look at. One is the Architecture one, which will have floor panels,
like this 400 by 400 floor panel here. If we poured another one of those into the
game, you would see it's a little bit smaller than the standard floor panel.
In fact, it's about half the size. And you've got other sized floor panels, but
you've also got wall panels. Alright, So to get rid of that, I've just hit the Delete
Key on the keyboard. So, what I'm going to do is just show you briefly how to start
laying out wall panels, putting a door in, etc. and then, I'm going to challenge
you to build yourself at least one room of geometry. You're welcome to go ahead and build two
or three if you wish. So, here's the idea, we grab ourselves a wall panel.
So, for instance, 400 is the height, 300 is the width. That would be
perhaps a good start! If you want to rotate it, of course, it's the E Key.
E to Rotate Mode and then rotate like that, by grabbing the blue bit.
Then, W... So, I've got my fingers on Q, W, E, as in
QWERTY, and I can then choose the different tools, so E let's me
translate. Now, how do we get this exactly at the edge of the map? Well, if it's not already on the
floor, the End Key will bring it down to the floor,
and then, you can move left and right. Now, here's a good tip for you! As you move
this thing, if you hold down the Shift Key, watch what happens. The camera
goes with it so if we're trying to align this edge, we can come around here where we could
make the judgement, hold down the Shift Key, select the red arrow through the geometry,
and then align like this. Now, we want to get this precise,
so pick a grid snapping of 5 or 10 centimeters. You may find
that 10 doesn't align, see I'm off grid here at 10.
So, if I go back down to 5 and move it one place, that's exactly right!
If I went back to 10, you'd notice that I'm back on
the 10 grid, if that makes sense. So, have a play with your grid spacing
here, and either holding down Shift or not holding down Shift, depending
on whether you want the camera to move with you. Alright, so that would be putting a wall panel
in. Then, how do we get the door in? Well, we've actually got a door and a door frame here.
We could select the two of them by selecting one, holding Shift, and selecting the other,
and now we can just move the door into the frame. I'm going to use the
End Key above the floor, to put it on the floor,
and then I'm just going to put this frame snuggly in here. Now, there's another view I want to
show you, before I slide this frame in, which is if we click at the very top-right
of your 3D Viewport. It says "Maximizes or restores this viewport". Look what happens!
I'm going to get rid of the Output Log. We go to a four-way view and each of these can
dragged around with the Right Mouse Button and zoom in and out, and what I'm
doing here is, I'm looking at the door from above. So look how easy it is to see that, that door is definitely in the
right place, in both the side view and the top view.
See that, the front view and the top view specifically. Cool! So, our
door is now in there! I'm going to re-maximize at the top-right of the Perspective View,
and just click Play and prove that obviously that code continues running.
Fine, so now it's a relatively simple question of
selecting these objects and putting them where we want. So, if I want my door on the end here,
I do that. And then if I want another wall panel, I'm going
to go for a what? Well, it was a 400 by 300 before, let's try the same thing
again. OK, and then it's a question of moving it
into place. Now, you can get yourself above.
There's lots of little ways we can make this easier for ourselves, lots of tools and extra
keyboard shortcuts and all sorts of things, but for now, I just want to get you in
with a basic idea. There we go! Now, we've got a really ugly
seam here, between the two of these guys and around the
door. But you'll probably find that when you go to Build and Build Lighting Only,
that when it does a quick lighting build that those problems will disappear.
And there you go! So, that's just a
lighting preview issue. Alright, so I've got a couple of wall panels
in there. What would I do if I wanted thinner wall panels? Well, you can actually
duplicate, say, this wall panel.  And I'm going to move this chair out of the way, so we can see what we're doing.
I can duplicate this wall panel simply by clicking on it,
holding down the Alt Key A l t, which is to the left of your Spacebar
or to the left of Cmd on a Mac and then of course immediately to the left of the Spacebar on a PC. If you hold
down Alt while you drag, look what happens! It creates a duplicate! Ah hah,
that's pretty cool! OK. I can position that and, of course, I can use the
R Key to go into the Scale Tool and
I can then scale this down. And if it's not scaling how I want it,
then I can change the Scale snap factor, but I've found that by putting
two 400 by 300 wall panels and then putting a third
400 by 300 wall panel in that,
I can actually scale it to 0.25 and it precisely fits. Again, I'll have this lighting
preview issue, but that's go when I rebuilt the lighting. Can you see now how it's relatively
easy to build up an entire level here. I could take this guy, I
could get it into Translate Mode, just find the key W.
I could hold down Alt
to create an alternative version of that or something. I don't know how you want
to remember it, and then, I can spin it around 90 degrees, looking for that 90. I
can come and just double check that this is correct in here. I think it
is, in this case. Good! And now, I can start taking a bigger
wall panel and duplicating that, or to be honest, sometimes it's easier just to
drop a new panel in, just do whatever is easiest. And again, you might want to go back to this
top view here, scroll it with the Right Mouse Button, and I think you're starting to
get the idea right, about how we place these things. By the way, remember that we can move something
just in the ground plane, by selecting this square here. You see where I'm
selected, the little right angle. Any
point just moves in the two axes that comprise the right angle, so that's a useful
axis locking tip. OK, so we've got one little gap to close up there,
and it should all be fine! So, that is the outline of my room! I'm
just going to go ahead and put a couple more things in. Just remember it's Alt
if you want to duplicate, just to finish off here. And then,
I'll close my room up. I may leave the roof open just to keep it bright for now,
and then, what we'll do is we'll come back and look at materials. Now look, we have a slight issue
here that the wall is over-hanging, and that is because of the way that this
is butting together here. So, are we going to worry about that? I think that it is
important that we get this right, once we have more than one room.
OK, but that's a finer tool, I just want you getting used to the gross
manipulations here, for now. So, what I want you to do is just finish off your
room or your series of rooms. You can always put another floor panel or series of floor panels
down, and then, once you've done that, maximize it up, grab yourself a screen
capture tool, and share your creation in the discussions, probably after you've
rebuilt the lighting.
OK welcome back! So, I am just going to quickly
make myself the rest of this room. I'm going to pull this guy over here
into rotate, with the E Key. I wish they would have made it R. I guess we can remap
them if we really wanted. And let's just go, probably from the
top view, because I think it's much easier to lay walls in a top view. That looks like
it's right, looks like it's woo right-click. It looks like it's 1 unit off. There
you go boom! And even from the top view I can do this business of holding down
Alt dragging, and you see how I get myself another panel. Now, eventually what's
going to happen is, we're going to make a real mess of our hierarchy,
what we call the World Outliner here. And, at some point, we're going to make a
folder, and we can do that right now, by right-clicking in the World Outliner
Tab and saying Create Folder and we can call it Walls. I'm going to
delete the other extraneous folder, and then you can take everything that's called a wall, if you wish
including the wall with the door frame, and just pop it into the Walls folder, like that.
Put the Walls folder wherever you like. It's going to float to the top, because it's a folder,
and then, that's just a lot tidier isn't it! All the walls can be collapsed down, and the
thing doesn't look so ugly. Cool, so just finish off!
We already have that half panel over here, so I can Alt
drag... Oops, that was Shift dragging, you've got to look at where your fingers are! Alt drag
that panel into the right place, it's roughly in the right
place there. And you get pretty quick at this, when you start using it a lot,
and you start getting used to where you need to be snapping, etc. So, that
ugliness is normal, what you just want to make sure is the gap is closed. Now, we've got a double
problem on the edge here, compounded by it's very similar to the problem on this
side. Is it twice as big or about the same? It's twice as big. But we're going to live with those
for now. We just want the interior of the room to look good, and as I say, later we will
do the good thing of making sure that the exterior dimensions are right
as well. And BSP, you could just adjust the face, but for now, we're going to just
block it out using these Static Meshes, to see what the pros and cons of them
are. I'll say the main prolonged term is the that they're more performant,
they are faster to render than the other guys. OK, so nearly
there. What I'm doing, because I can't see my keyboard with my
mic in the way, is I just keep hitting Shift instead of Alt.
So, it's Alt that you want to do your duplication, and then, we want a
final thing, which I think I'm going to grab from here,
duplicate it across. And hopefully you've got the idea, it's relatively simple
to lay these levels out. They've done this on purpose, of course, they've given us really useful tools.
What, I got lost. Where am I? There I am, perfect!
Bring it in and then I'm going to make them
butt up against each other perfectly, that way, but let them overlap on the outside. Now, if I just go
ahead and rebuild my lighting, then these ugly lighting preview issues
will go away. I'm also going to show you another thing, which is we could do with some lighting in this
scene. If you want a work light, in the scene to be getting on with, then I'll show you how
to do that, but before I do that, I'm going to show you how to find yourself, you'll get lost again.
I've clicked away, done things too fast, and ended up miles away! How do I end up
back in the middle? Well, one way is you double-click on Player Start and that will get you very
close to the start, and then, you can use your normal W, S, A, D keys to get yourself
back. Alright, if you want a work light, then there's a way of doing that! What you
can do to get a work light is, you hold down the L Key and double-click. It's a little bit fiddly, as
you saw there. It's not 100% perfect but let me just show you that
again. It brings in what we call a point light into the scene. You hold down the L Key
and you double-click. If it doesn't work, you try again. Maybe you need to let
go of L and try again, and eventually you will get that work light in place.
Hi there, this is Sam again! This is just a quick post edit to point out
that, if you're struggling with this particular keyboard combination, the L and double-click,
another way is to do a Shift L and just a single click and
that seems to be more reliable in this instance.
And then, the work light, as I said as a point light, and then you can just move it to where you
want, just so you can see what you're doing when you're level building, literally like you're under
scaffolding. And that's filled in those shadows there. I think the chair would look better if
it was up against a wall perhaps, and then, that's it we're done!
I would do a final lighting rebuild, and then, I would take a screenshot and share it in
the discussions. Now, I want to make sure that you are making your commits, your
commits to your version control. So, I am going to
leave Visual Studio, because I want all of the lock files to be closed. I want to
go to File and Save All inside Unreal,
close that, and then, over here in my version control, the changes are
basically, there's a Visual Studio file just because I opened and closed it. We can actually ignore
.suo's, we'll do that very shortly I think, and then, you'll
also have here a .umap, which is the actual map that we changed.
So, this is where I'll be making my commit, stage all of those, Commit, and off we go!
Cool! So well done, you've started to build a level, and I will see you in the next video!